---
title: How I easily added a free open-source comment system to my blog
description: Learn how to use the Cusdis free commenting system on your website and how I added it to my blog.
category: web-development
date: 2022-03-22
expiry: 2023-01-01
excerpt: Find out how to add the free commenting system from Cusdis to your website.
keywords:
  - Cusdis
  - Cusdis comment
  - Comment system
  - Disqus alternatives
  - free comment system
  - free comments
tags:
  - Svelte
---

## What is Cusdis?

Cusdis is a new lightweight, privacy-first, open-sourced comment system. It's a perfect alternative for Disqus users who want to retain their privacy, and it's also very lightweight (~5KB gzipped).

Installing Cusdis is very easy, and its user interface is simple. Users do not need to sign up before they can comment on your website, which is very great for me because I do not want users to take "hours" to create an account to just write a single comment.

Since Cusdis is very new, there are a few pros and cons that I would like to outline.

### Pros

- Cusdis is open-sourced.
  This means that if you are a developer, you can read the source code and make sure they are not tracking your data.

- It is self-hostable.
  In case you want to host your data on your server, Cusdis allows you to do just that.

- It doesn't require the commenter to sign in.

- It also doesn't use cookies.

### Cons

- You have to manually moderate comments.
  Unlike other comment systems, you have to manually moderate your comments in Cusdis. This means that comments are not displayed by default until you approve them.

- The comment widget is not customizable.
  This means you can't use your colours and fonts within the widget.

## Installing Cusdis on your Svelte Website

As I said earlier on, installing Cusdis is very easy. Just [head over to their website and create an account](https://cusdis.com/). After that, you will be redirected to your dashboard which will allow you to add a new website. After adding the website, you will be given an embed code which you will place wherever on your page where you want your comment widget to appear.

On this site, my blog posts page is on `src/routes/blog/[slug]/index.svelte`, and this is how I inserted Cusdis into my website.

```svelte
<article>
<div>
<!-- article content -->
</div>
    <div  id="cusdis_thread"
    data-host="https://cusdis.com"
    data-app-id="{appid}"
    data-page-id="{metadata.slug}"
    data-page-url="{$page.url.pathname}"
    data-page-title="{metadata.title}"
    data-theme="{$theme}">
    </div>
<svelte:head>
    <script async defer src="https://cusdis.com/js/cusdis.es.js"></script>
</svelte:head>
</article>
```

This is how I display Cusdis on my website. I provide variables for all the data Cusdis will need to render the comment system.

The `data-host` refers to the domain on which the data is loaded. You will set it to your domain if you self-host Cusdis. The `data-app-id` is a unique ID that is generated by Cusdis for you. You will find it on your project page on your dashboard. The `data-page-id` is a unique keyword that is used to identify the page; a perfect fit would be your blog's page slug. The `data-page-url` is the current page URL. The `data-page-title` refers to the title of the current page. `data-theme` also refers to the theme of the widget system; it could be dark, light, or auto but if a value is not provided, it defaults to light.

## Conclusion

So this is a small write-up about how I added the Cusdis comment system to my website.
